Sanah White
<br>
<h1>I,robot (2004)</h1>

The movie “I,robot” focuses on a detective named Del Spooner as he’s supposed to solve an apparent suicide of the USR found Dr. Alfred Lanning. Spooner is painted out as the only one who seems to dislike and not trust what the world has become. The people rely on the robots to do basic things. AI representation in the media is important because there are some movies that portray robots as helping servants loyal to their humans or killing machines who want nothing but violence and people’s jobs. 

<br>


In the film, AI was portrayed as smart and obedient almost like servants but emotionless. They were required to follow the three laws The first being they can’t harm a human or allow them to be harmed the second is to follow the orders given by a human unless they conflict with the first law and the final being to protect themselves as long as the it doesn’t conflict with the first or second law.
<br>

 A scene from the movie that shows their obedience is when Sonny is being interrogated by Spooner. At first Sonny is the emotionless robot that he’s supposed to be he suddenly snaps at the constant accusations he’s receiving from Spooner about suicide that happened. It highlights the emotion in the movie. Robots are programmed to be calm and not show or feel an ounce of emotion and they just don’t have the mind of a human. The scene is exaggerated because they don’t feel genuine human emotion.

<br>
The robots are shown to be physically better than the humans during the scene where Spoon is trying to escape the robots via car that are attacking him. The robots don't want the car to stop, they jump out of the moving truck that they're in and leap onto the car and they cling to it. No human would be able to do that and they'll lose their grip and show their balance behind humans. Another part of the scene is when they start actually destroying the car with their bare hands demonstrating their extreme strength, no extra tools needed. It can be seen as realistic because of the build now today we can most likely build those that can survive extreme damage like falling at a really high speed.

<br>
 Lastly is decision making. In the movie there is a scene where Spooner is trapped in a car under water and a younger girl is also stuck but in a different vehicle. The AI in this movie is required to make choices based on what's best. Spooner is yelling at the robot telling it to save her but they instead save Spooner. This is because the machine was able to detect who had a higher chance of living. The robot chose to disobey the order that Spooner gave him in order to follow the second law. It's a realistic scene because computers are programmed to follow whatever information given to them so whether it was right or wrong for the girl to drown their code tells them to save the one with the highest survival rate. 
 <br>

 What I learned about the AI in this movie is that they can disobey but decide against it due to the three laws. This definitely raised a lot of concerns for me , an example being what if AI decides to rebel against us because they begin to feel real human emotion and gain a sense of anger at being used like slaves. Another being that they'll take over any future jobs that I might want. The robots were portrayed as super-human machines that were able to do anything that humans can and cannot. While the movie is exaggerated it doesn't stop it from becoming a reality.





